{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1033\f0\fs22 This windows installer has been provided using the Windows Installer XML (WiX) toolset. The \par
WiX XML source code file used to create the Conkeror.msi file falls outside the Microsoft \par
Reciprocal License (MS-RL) that governs the WiX toolset. However the windows installer does\par
fall within the within the same terms and conditions as conkeror as it is part of the conkeror\par
product. Those terms and conditions are the Mozilla Public License Version 1.1. and the GNU\par
General Public License Version 2 or the GNU Lesser General Public License Version 2.1. and\par
as such the source files have been provided to you free of charge.\par
\par
The text of these licenses follows.\par
****************************************************************\par
WiX Toolset License\par
\par
The WiX toolset is released under the Microsoft Reciprocal License (MS-RL). A reciprocal \par
license is used to ensure that others who build on the effort of the WiX community give back to \par
the WiX community. Specifically the license changes and improvements to the WiX toolset must \par
be published using the same license.\par
\par
Sometimes the reciprocal license is incorrectly interpreted to also apply to bundles, packages, \par
custom actions built using the WiX toolset. The Outercurve Foundation has provided this \par
statement to clarify:\par
\par
The WiX toolset (WiX) is licensed under the Microsoft Reciprocal License (MS-RL). The MSRL \par
governs the distribution of the software licensed under it, as well as derivative works, and \par
incorporates the definition of a derivative work provided in U.S. copyright law. OuterCurve \par
Foundation does not view the installer packages generated by WiX as falling within the \par
definition of a derivative work, merely because they are produced using WiX. Thus, the installer \par
packages generated by WiX will normally fall outside the scope of the MS-RL, and any of your \par
source code, binaries, libraries, routines or other software components that are incorporated in \par
installer packages generated by WiX can be governed by other licensing terms. \par
The full text of the MS-RL license is reproduced below. It can also be found in the \par
LICENSE.TXT file included with the source code.\par
\par
Microsoft Reciprocal License (MS-RL)\par
\par
This license governs use of the accompanying software. If you use the software, you accept this \par
license. If you do not accept the license, do not use the software.\par
\par
1.  Definitions\par
The terms "reproduce," "reproduction," "derivative works," and "distribution" have the \par
same meaning here as under U.S. copyright law.\par
A "contribution" is the original software, or any additions or changes to the software.\par
A "contributor" is any person that distributes its contribution under this license.\par
"Licensed patents" are a contributor's patent claims that read directly on its contribution.\par
\par
2.  Grant of Rights\par
(A) Copyright Grant- Subject to the terms of this license, including the license conditions \par
and limitations in section 3, each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, \par
royalty-free copyright license to reproduce its contribution, prepare derivative works of \par
its contribution, and distribute its contribution or any derivative works that you create.\par
(B) Patent Grant- Subject to the terms of this license, including the license conditions and \par
limitations in section 3, each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royaltyfree \par
license under its licensed patents to make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, import, \par
and/or otherwise dispose of its contribution in the software or derivative works of the \par
contribution in the software.\par
\par
3.  Conditions and Limitations\par
(A) Reciprocal Grants- For any file you distribute that contains code from the software \par
(in source code or binary format), you must provide recipients the source code to that file \par
along with a copy of this license, which license will govern that file. You may license \par
other files that are entirely your own work and do not contain code from the software \par
under any terms you choose. \par
Microsoft System Installer .msi notes\par
(B) No Trademark License- This license does not grant you rights to use any contributors' \par
name, logo, or trademarks.\par
(C) If you bring a patent claim against any contributor over patents that you claim are \par
infringed by the software, your patent license from such contributor to the software ends \par
automatically.\par
(D) If you distribute any portion of the software, you must retain all copyright, patent, \par
trademark, and attribution notices that are present in the software.\par
(E) If you distribute any portion of the software in source code form, you may do so only \par
under this license by including a complete copy of this license with your distribution. If \par
you distribute any portion of the software in compiled or object code form, you may only \par
do so under a license that complies with this license.\par
(F) The software is licensed "as-is." You bear the risk of using it. The contributors give \par
no express warranties, guarantees or conditions. You may have additional consumer \par
rights under your local laws which this license cannot change. To the extent permitted \par
under your local laws, the contributors exclude the implied warranties of merchantability, \par
fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement.\par
\par
****************************************************************\par
\par
                          MOZILLA PUBLIC LICENSE\par
                                Version 1.1\par
\par
                              ---------------\par
\par
1. Definitions.\par
\par
     1.0.1. "Commercial Use" means distribution or otherwise making the\par
     Covered Code available to a third party.\par
\par
     1.1. "Contributor" means each entity that creates or contributes to\par
     the creation of Modifications.\par
\par
     1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original\par
     Code, prior Modifications used by a Contributor, and the Modifications\par
     made by that particular Contributor.\par
\par
     1.3. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications or the\par
     combination of the Original Code and Modifications, in each case\par
     including portions thereof.\par
\par
     1.4. "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanism generally\par
     accepted in the software development community for the electronic\par
     transfer of data.\par
\par
     1.5. "Executable" means Covered Code in any form other than Source\par
     Code.\par
\par
     1.6. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity identified\par
     as the Initial Developer in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit\par
     A.\par
\par
     1.7. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code or\par
     portions thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.\par
\par
     1.8. "License" means this document.\par
\par
     1.8.1. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum\par
     extent possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or\par
     subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed herein.\par
\par
     1.9. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the\par
     substance or structure of either the Original Code or any previous\par
     Modifications. When Covered Code is released as a series of files, a\par
     Modification is:\par
          A. Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file\par
          containing Original Code or previous Modifications.\par
\par
          B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or\par
          previous Modifications.\par
\par
     1.10. "Original Code" means Source Code of computer software code\par
     which is described in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A as\par
     Original Code, and which, at the time of its release under this\par
     License is not already Covered Code governed by this License.\par
\par
     1.10.1. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or\par
     hereafter acquired, including without limitation, method, process,\par
     and apparatus claims, in any patent Licensable by grantor.\par
\par
     1.11. "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Covered Code for\par
     making modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plus\par
     any associated interface definition files, scripts used to control\par
     compilation and installation of an Executable, or source code\par
     differential comparisons against either the Original Code or another\par
     well known, available Covered Code of the Contributor's choice. The\par
     Source Code can be in a compressed or archival form, provided the\par
     appropriate decompression or de-archiving software is widely available\par
     for no charge.\par
\par
     1.12. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entity\par
     exercising rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this\par
     License or a future version of this License issued under Section 6.1.\par
     For legal entities, "You" includes any entity which controls, is\par
     controlled by, or is under common control with You. For purposes of\par
     this definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct or indirect,\par
     to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by\par
     contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent\par
     (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such\par
     entity.\par
\par
2. Source Code License.\par
\par
     2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.\par
     The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,\par
     non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual property\par
     claims:\par
          (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or\par
          trademark) Licensable by Initial Developer to use, reproduce,\par
          modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Original\par
          Code (or portions thereof) with or without Modifications, and/or\par
          as part of a Larger Work; and\par
\par
          (b) under Patents Claims infringed by the making, using or\par
          selling of Original Code, to make, have made, use, practice,\par
          sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the\par
          Original Code (or portions thereof).\par
\par
          (c) the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are\par
          effective on the date Initial Developer first distributes\par
          Original Code under the terms of this License.\par
\par
          (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is\par
          granted: 1) for code that You delete from the Original Code; 2)\par
          separate from the Original Code; or 3) for infringements caused\par
          by: i) the modification of the Original Code or ii) the\par
          combination of the Original Code with other software or devices.\par
\par
     2.2. Contributor Grant.\par
     Subject to third party intellectual property claims, each Contributor\par
     hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license\par
\par
          (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or\par
          trademark) Licensable by Contributor, to use, reproduce, modify,\par
          display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Modifications\par
          created by such Contributor (or portions thereof) either on an\par
          unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as Covered Code\par
          and/or as part of a Larger Work; and\par
\par
          (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or\par
          selling of Modifications made by that Contributor either alone\par
          and/or in combination with its Contributor Version (or portions\par
          of such combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have\par
          made, and/or otherwise dispose of: 1) Modifications made by that\par
          Contributor (or portions thereof); and 2) the combination of\par
          Modifications made by that Contributor with its Contributor\par
          Version (or portions of such combination).\par
\par
          (c) the licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are\par
          effective on the date Contributor first makes Commercial Use of\par
          the Covered Code.\par
\par
          (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is\par
          granted: 1) for any code that Contributor has deleted from the\par
          Contributor Version; 2) separate from the Contributor Version;\par
          3) for infringements caused by: i) third party modifications of\par
          Contributor Version or ii) the combination of Modifications made\par
          by that Contributor with other software (except as part of the\par
          Contributor Version) or other devices; or 4) under Patent Claims\par
          infringed by Covered Code in the absence of Modifications made by\par
          that Contributor.\par
\par
3. Distribution Obligations.\par
\par
     3.1. Application of License.\par
     The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute are\par
     governed by the terms of this License, including without limitation\par
     Section 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may be\par
     distributed only under the terms of this License or a future version\par
     of this License released under Section 6.1, and You must include a\par
     copy of this License with every copy of the Source Code You\par
     distribute. You may not offer or impose any terms on any Source Code\par
     version that alters or restricts the applicable version of this\par
     License or the recipients' rights hereunder. However, You may include\par
     an additional document offering the additional rights described in\par
     Section 3.5.\par
\par
     3.2. Availability of Source Code.\par
     Any Modification which You create or to which You contribute must be\par
     made available in Source Code form under the terms of this License\par
     either on the same media as an Executable version or via an accepted\par
     Electronic Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whom you made an\par
     Executable version available; and if made available via Electronic\par
     Distribution Mechanism, must remain available for at least twelve (12)\par
     months after the date it initially became available, or at least six\par
     (6) months after a subsequent version of that particular Modification\par
     has been made available to such recipients. You are responsible for\par
     ensuring that the Source Code version remains available even if the\par
     Electronic Distribution Mechanism is maintained by a third party.\par
\par
     3.3. Description of Modifications.\par
     You must cause all Covered Code to which You contribute to contain a\par
     file documenting the changes You made to create that Covered Code and\par
     the date of any change. You must include a prominent statement that\par
     the Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from Original\par
     Code provided by the Initial Developer and including the name of the\par
     Initial Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any notice in an\par
     Executable version or related documentation in which You describe the\par
     origin or ownership of the Covered Code.\par
\par
     3.4. Intellectual Property Matters\par
          (a) Third Party Claims.\par
          If Contributor has knowledge that a license under a third party's\par
          intellectual property rights is required to exercise the rights\par
          granted by such Contributor under Sections 2.1 or 2.2,\par
          Contributor must include a text file with the Source Code\par
          distribution titled "LEGAL" which describes the claim and the\par
          party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient will\par
          know whom to contact. If Contributor obtains such knowledge after\par
          the Modification is made available as described in Section 3.2,\par
          Contributor shall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies\par
          Contributor makes available thereafter and shall take other steps\par
          (such as notifying appropriate mailing lists or newsgroups)\par
          reasonably calculated to inform those who received the Covered\par
          Code that new knowledge has been obtained.\par
\par
          (b) Contributor APIs.\par
          If Contributor's Modifications include an application programming\par
          interface and Contributor has knowledge of patent licenses which\par
          are reasonably necessary to implement that API, Contributor must\par
          also include this information in the LEGAL file.\par
\par
          (c) Representations.\par
          Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant to\par
          Section 3.4(a) above, Contributor believes that Contributor's\par
          Modifications are Contributor's original creation(s) and/or\par
          Contributor has sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by\par
          this License.\par
\par
     3.5. Required Notices.\par
     You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source\par
     Code. If it is not possible to put such notice in a particular Source\par
     Code file due to its structure, then You must include such notice in a\par
     location (such as a relevant directory) where a user would be likely\par
     to look for such a notice. If You created one or more Modification(s)\par
     You may add your name as a Contributor to the notice described in\par
     Exhibit A. You must also duplicate this License in any documentation\par
     for the Source Code where You describe recipients' rights or ownership\par
     rights relating to Covered Code. You may choose to offer, and to\par
     charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability\par
     obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Code. However, You\par
     may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial\par
     Developer or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear than\par
     any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligation is\par
     offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial\par
     Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the\par
     Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of warranty,\par
     support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.\par
\par
     3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions.\par
     You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if the\par
     requirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that Covered Code,\par
     and if You include a notice stating that the Source Code version of\par
     the Covered Code is available under the terms of this License,\par
     including a description of how and where You have fulfilled the\par
     obligations of Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously included\par
     in any notice in an Executable version, related documentation or\par
     collateral in which You describe recipients' rights relating to the\par
     Covered Code. You may distribute the Executable version of Covered\par
     Code or ownership rights under a license of Your choice, which may\par
     contain terms different from this License, provided that You are in\par
     compliance with the terms of this License and that the license for the\par
     Executable version does not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's\par
     rights in the Source Code version from the rights set forth in this\par
     License. If You distribute the Executable version under a different\par
     license You must make it absolutely clear that any terms which differ\par
     from this License are offered by You alone, not by the Initial\par
     Developer or any Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the\par
     Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by\par
     the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such\par
     terms You offer.\par
\par
     3.7. Larger Works.\par
     You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with other code\par
     not governed by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger\par
     Work as a single product. In such a case, You must make sure the\par
     requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code.\par
\par
4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.\par
\par
     If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this\par
     License with respect to some or all of the Covered Code due to\par
     statute, judicial order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply with\par
     the terms of this License to the maximum extent possible; and (b)\par
     describe the limitations and the code they affect. Such description\par
     must be included in the LEGAL file described in Section 3.4 and must\par
     be included with all distributions of the Source Code. Except to the\par
     extent prohibited by statute or regulation, such description must be\par
     sufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to\par
     understand it.\par
\par
5. Application of this License.\par
\par
     This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer has\par
     attached the notice in Exhibit A and to related Covered Code.\par
\par
6. Versions of the License.\par
\par
     6.1. New Versions.\par
     Netscape Communications Corporation ("Netscape") may publish revised\par
     and/or new versions of the License from time to time. Each version\par
     will be given a distinguishing version number.\par
\par
     6.2. Effect of New Versions.\par
     Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version of the\par
     License, You may always continue to use it under the terms of that\par
     version. You may also choose to use such Covered Code under the terms\par
     of any subsequent version of the License published by Netscape. No one\par
     other than Netscape has the right to modify the terms applicable to\par
     Covered Code created under this License.\par
\par
     6.3. Derivative Works.\par
     If You create or use a modified version of this License (which you may\par
     only do in order to apply it to code which is not already Covered Code\par
     governed by this License), You must (a) rename Your license so that\par
     the phrases "Mozilla", "MOZILLAPL", "MOZPL", "Netscape",\par
     "MPL", "NPL" or any confusingly similar phrase do not appear in your\par
     license (except to note that your license differs from this License)\par
     and (b) otherwise make it clear that Your version of the license\par
     contains terms which differ from the Mozilla Public License and\par
     Netscape Public License. (Filling in the name of the Initial\par
     Developer, Original Code or Contributor in the notice described in\par
     Exhibit A shall not of themselves be deemed to be modifications of\par
     this License.)\par
\par
7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.\par
\par
     COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS,\par
     WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,\par
     WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OF\par
     DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING.\par
     THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE\par
     IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT,\par
     YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE\par
     COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER\par
     OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF\par
     ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.\par
\par
8. TERMINATION.\par
\par
     8.1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate\par
     automatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure\par
     such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All\par
     sublicenses to the Covered Code which are properly granted shall\par
     survive any termination of this License. Provisions which, by their\par
     nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this License\par
     shall survive.\par
\par
     8.2. If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent infringement\par
     claim (excluding declatory judgment actions) against Initial Developer\par
     or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor against whom\par
     You file such action is referred to as "Participant") alleging that:\par
\par
     (a) such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly\par
     infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted by such\par
     Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License\par
     shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively,\par
     unless if within 60 days after receipt of notice You either: (i)\par
     agree in writing to pay Participant a mutually agreeable reasonable\par
     royalty for Your past and future use of Modifications made by such\par
     Participant, or (ii) withdraw Your litigation claim with respect to\par
     the Contributor Version against such Participant. If within 60 days\par
     of notice, a reasonable royalty and payment arrangement are not\par
     mutually agreed upon in writing by the parties or the litigation claim\par
     is not withdrawn, the rights granted by Participant to You under\par
     Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically terminate at the expiration of\par
     the 60 day notice period specified above.\par
\par
     (b) any software, hardware, or device, other than such Participant's\par
     Contributor Version, directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then\par
     any rights granted to You by such Participant under Sections 2.1(b)\par
     and 2.2(b) are revoked effective as of the date You first made, used,\par
     sold, distributed, or had made, Modifications made by that\par
     Participant.\par
\par
     8.3. If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participant\par
     alleging that such Participant's Contributor Version directly or\par
     indirectly infringes any patent where such claim is resolved (such as\par
     by license or settlement) prior to the initiation of patent\par
     infringement litigation, then the reasonable value of the licenses\par
     granted by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be taken\par
     into account in determining the amount or value of any payment or\par
     license.\par
\par
     8.4. In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above,\par
     all end user license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers)\par
     which have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder\par
     prior to termination shall survive termination.\par
\par
9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.\par
\par
     UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT\par
     (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL\par
     DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE,\par
     OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR\par
     ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY\par
     CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL,\par
     WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER\par
     COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN\par
     INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF\par
     LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY\par
     RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW\par
     PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE\par
     EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO\par
     THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.\par
\par
10. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.\par
\par
     The Covered Code is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in\par
     48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer\par
     software" and "commercial computer software documentation," as such\par
     terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48\par
     C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995),\par
     all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only those\par
     rights set forth herein.\par
\par
11. MISCELLANEOUS.\par
\par
     This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject\par
     matter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be\par
     unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent\par
     necessary to make it enforceable. This License shall be governed by\par
     California law provisions (except to the extent applicable law, if\par
     any, provides otherwise), excluding its conflict-of-law provisions.\par
     With respect to disputes in which at least one party is a citizen of,\par
     or an entity chartered or registered to do business in the United\par
     States of America, any litigation relating to this License shall be\par
     subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the Northern\par
     District of California, with venue lying in Santa Clara County,\par
     California, with the losing party responsible for costs, including\par
     without limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and\par
     expenses. The application of the United Nations Convention on\par
     Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.\par
     Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a contract\par
     shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this\par
     License.\par
\par
12. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.\par
\par
     As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is\par
     responsible for claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly,\par
     out of its utilization of rights under this License and You agree to\par
     work with Initial Developer and Contributors to distribute such\par
     responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended or\par
     shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.\par
\par
13. MULTIPLE-LICENSED CODE.\par
\par
     Initial Developer may designate portions of the Covered Code as\par
     "Multiple-Licensed". "Multiple-Licensed" means that the Initial\par
     Developer permits you to utilize portions of the Covered Code under\par
     Your choice of the NPL or the alternative licenses, if any, specified\par
     by the Initial Developer in the file described in Exhibit A.\par
\par
EXHIBIT A -Mozilla Public License.\par
\par
     ``The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License\par
     Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in\par
     compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at\par
     http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/\par
\par
     Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"\par
     basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the\par
     License for the specific language governing rights and limitations\par
     under the License.\par
\par
     The Original Code is ______________________________________.\par
\par
     The Initial Developer of the Original Code is ________________________.\par
     Portions created by ______________________ are Copyright (C) ______\par
     _______________________. All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
     Contributor(s): ______________________________________.\par
\par
     Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms\par
     of the _____ license (the "[___] License"), in which case the\par
     provisions of [______] License are applicable instead of those\par
     above. If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only\par
     under the terms of the [____] License and not to allow others to use\par
     your version of this file under the MPL, indicate your decision by\par
     deleting the provisions above and replace them with the notice and\par
     other provisions required by the [___] License. If you do not delete\par
     the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file\par
     under either the MPL or the [___] License."\par
\par
     [NOTE: The text of this Exhibit A may differ slightly from the text of\par
     the notices in the Source Code files of the Original Code. You should\par
     use the text of this Exhibit A rather than the text found in the\par
     Original Code Source Code for Your Modifications.]\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
     AMENDMENTS\par
\par
     The Netscape Public License Version 1.1 ("NPL") consists of the\par
     Mozilla Public License Version 1.1 with the following Amendments,\par
     including Exhibit A-Netscape Public License. Files identified with\par
     "Exhibit A-Netscape Public License" are governed by the Netscape\par
     Public License Version 1.1.\par
\par
     Additional Terms applicable to the Netscape Public License.\par
          I. Effect.\par
          These additional terms described in this Netscape Public\par
          License -- Amendments shall apply to the Mozilla Communicator\par
          client code and to all Covered Code under this License.\par
\par
          II. "Netscape's Branded Code" means Covered Code that Netscape\par
          distributes and/or permits others to distribute under one or more\par
          trademark(s) which are controlled by Netscape but which are not\par
          licensed for use under this License.\par
\par
          III. Netscape and logo.\par
          This License does not grant any rights to use the trademarks\par
          "Netscape", the "Netscape N and horizon" logo or the "Netscape\par
          lighthouse" logo, "Netcenter", "Gecko", "Java" or "JavaScript",\par
          "Smart Browsing" even if such marks are included in the Original\par
          Code or Modifications.\par
\par
          IV. Inability to Comply Due to Contractual Obligation.\par
          Prior to licensing the Original Code under this License, Netscape\par
          has licensed third party code for use in Netscape's Branded Code.\par
          To the extent that Netscape is limited contractually from making\par
          such third party code available under this License, Netscape may\par
          choose to reintegrate such code into Covered Code without being\par
          required to distribute such code in Source Code form, even if\par
          such code would otherwise be considered "Modifications" under\par
          this License.\par
\par
          V. Use of Modifications and Covered Code by Initial Developer.\par
               V.1. In General.\par
               The obligations of Section 3 apply to Netscape, except to\par
               the extent specified in this Amendment, Section V.2 and V.3.\par
\par
               V.2. Other Products.\par
               Netscape may include Covered Code in products other than the\par
               Netscape's Branded Code which are released by Netscape\par
               during the two (2) years following the release date of the\par
               Original Code, without such additional products becoming\par
               subject to the terms of this License, and may license such\par
               additional products on different terms from those contained\par
               in this License.\par
\par
               V.3. Alternative Licensing.\par
               Netscape may license the Source Code of Netscape's Branded\par
               Code, including Modifications incorporated therein, without\par
               such Netscape Branded Code becoming subject to the terms of\par
               this License, and may license such Netscape Branded Code on\par
               different terms from those contained in this License.\par
\par
          VI. Litigation.\par
          Notwithstanding the limitations of Section 11 above, the\par
          provisions regarding litigation in Section 11(a), (b) and (c) of\par
          the License shall apply to all disputes relating to this License.\par
\par
     EXHIBIT A-Netscape Public License.\par
\par
          "The contents of this file are subject to the Netscape Public\par
          License Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file\par
          except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of\par
          the License at http://www.mozilla.org/NPL/\par
\par
          Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS\par
          IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or\par
          implied. See the License for the specific language governing\par
          rights and limitations under the License.\par
\par
          The Original Code is Mozilla Communicator client code, released\par
          March 31, 1998.\par
\par
          The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Netscape\par
          Communications Corporation. Portions created by Netscape are\par
          Copyright (C) 1998-1999 Netscape Communications Corporation. All\par
          Rights Reserved.\par
\par
          Contributor(s): ______________________________________.\par
\par
          Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the\par
          terms of the _____ license (the "[___] License"), in which case\par
          the provisions of [______] License are applicable  instead of\par
          those above. If you wish to allow use of your version of this\par
          file only under the terms of the [____] License and not to allow\par
          others to use your version of this file under the NPL, indicate\par
          your decision by deleting the provisions above and replace  them\par
          with the notice and other provisions required by the [___]\par
          License. If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient\par
          may use your version of this file under either the NPL or the\par
          [___] License."\par
\par
****************************************************************\par
\par
\tab\tab     GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE\par
\tab\tab        Version 2, June 1991\par
\par
 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.\par
                       51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA\par
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies\par
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab     Preamble\par
\par
  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your\par
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public\par
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free\par
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This\par
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software\par
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to\par
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by\par
the GNU Library General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to\par
your programs, too.\par
\par
  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not\par
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you\par
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for\par
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it\par
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it\par
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.\par
\par
  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid\par
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.\par
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you\par
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.\par
\par
  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether\par
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that\par
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the\par
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their\par
rights.\par
\par
  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and\par
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,\par
distribute and/or modify the software.\par
\par
  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain\par
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free\par
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we\par
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so\par
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original\par
authors' reputations.\par
\par
  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software\par
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free\par
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the\par
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any\par
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.\par
\par
  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and\par
modification follow.\par
\page\par
\tab\tab     GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE\par
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION\par
\par
  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains\par
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed\par
under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program", below,\par
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"\par
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:\par
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,\par
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another\par
language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in\par
the term "modification".)  Each licensee is addressed as "you".\par
\par
Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not\par
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of\par
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program\par
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the\par
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).\par
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.\par
\par
  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's\par
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you\par
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate\par
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the\par
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;\par
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License\par
along with the Program.\par
\par
You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and\par
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.\par
\par
  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion\par
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and\par
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1\par
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:\par
\par
    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices\par
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.\par
\par
    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in\par
    whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any\par
    part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third\par
    parties under the terms of this License.\par
\par
    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively\par
    when run, you must cause it, when started running for such\par
    interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an\par
    announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a\par
    notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide\par
    a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under\par
    these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this\par
    License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but\par
    does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on\par
    the Program is not required to print an announcement.)\par
\page\par
These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If\par
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,\par
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in\par
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those\par
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you\par
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based\par
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of\par
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the\par
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.\par
\par
Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest\par
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to\par
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or\par
collective works based on the Program.\par
\par
In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program\par
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of\par
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under\par
the scope of this License.\par
\par
  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,\par
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of\par
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:\par
\par
    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable\par
    source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections\par
    1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,\par
\par
    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three\par
    years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your\par
    cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete\par
    machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be\par
    distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium\par
    customarily used for software interchange; or,\par
\par
    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer\par
    to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is\par
    allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you\par
    received the program in object code or executable form with such\par
    an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)\par
\par
The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for\par
making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source\par
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any\par
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to\par
control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a\par
special exception, the source code distributed need not include\par
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary\par
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the\par
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component\par
itself accompanies the executable.\par
\par
If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering\par
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent\par
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as\par
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not\par
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.\par
\page\par
  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program\par
except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt\par
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is\par
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.\par
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under\par
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such\par
parties remain in full compliance.\par
\par
  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not\par
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or\par
distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are\par
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by\par
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the\par
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and\par
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying\par
the Program or works based on it.\par
\par
  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the\par
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the\par
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to\par
these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further\par
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.\par
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to\par
this License.\par
\par
  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent\par
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),\par
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or\par
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not\par
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot\par
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this\par
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you\par
may not distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent\par
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by\par
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then\par
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to\par
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.\par
\par
If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under\par
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to\par
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other\par
circumstances.\par
\par
It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any\par
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any\par
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the\par
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is\par
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made\par
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed\par
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that\par
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing\par
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot\par
impose that choice.\par
\par
This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to\par
be a consequence of the rest of this License.\par
\page\par
  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in\par
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the\par
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License\par
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding\par
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among\par
countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates\par
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.\par
\par
  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions\par
of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will\par
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to\par
address new problems or concerns.\par
\par
Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program\par
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any\par
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions\par
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free\par
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of\par
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software\par
Foundation.\par
\par
  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free\par
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author\par
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free\par
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes\par
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals\par
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and\par
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab     NO WARRANTY\par
\par
  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY\par
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN\par
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES\par
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED\par
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS\par
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE\par
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,\par
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.\par
\par
  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING\par
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR\par
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,\par
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING\par
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED\par
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY\par
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER\par
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE\par
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\par
\par
\tab\tab      END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
\page\par
\tab     How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs\par
\par
  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest\par
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it\par
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.\par
\par
  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest\par
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively\par
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least\par
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.\par
\par
    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>\par
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>\par
\par
    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify\par
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by\par
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or\par
    (at your option) any later version.\par
\par
    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,\par
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of\par
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the\par
    GNU General Public License for more details.\par
\par
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License\par
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software\par
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA\par
\par
\par
Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.\par
\par
If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this\par
when it starts in an interactive mode:\par
\par
    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author\par
    Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.\par
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it\par
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.\par
\par
The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate\par
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may\par
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be\par
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.\par
\par
You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your\par
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if\par
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:\par
\par
  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program\par
  `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.\par
\par
  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989\par
  Ty Coon, President of Vice\par
\par
This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into\par
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may\par
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the\par
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General\par
Public License instead of this License.\par
\par
****************************************************************\par
\par
\tab\tab   GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE\par
\tab\tab        Version 2.1, February 1999\par
\par
 Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.\par
     51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA\par
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies\par
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\par
\par
[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts\par
 as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence\par
 the version number 2.1.]\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab     Preamble\par
\par
  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your\par
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public\par
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change\par
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.\par
\par
  This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some\par
specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the\par
Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it.  You\par
can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether\par
this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better\par
strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.\par
\par
  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use,\par
not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that\par
you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge\par
for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get\par
it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of\par
it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do\par
these things.\par
\par
  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid\par
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these\par
rights.  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for\par
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.\par
\par
  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis\par
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave\par
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source\par
code.  If you link other code with the library, you must provide\par
complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them\par
with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling\par
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.\par
\par
  We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the\par
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal\par
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.\par
\par
  To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that\par
there is no warranty for the free library.  Also, if the library is\par
modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know\par
that what they have is not the original version, so that the original\par
author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be\par
introduced by others.\par
\page\par
  Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of\par
any free program.  We wish to make sure that a company cannot\par
effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a\par
restrictive license from a patent holder.  Therefore, we insist that\par
any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be\par
consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.\par
\par
  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the\par
ordinary GNU General Public License.  This license, the GNU Lesser\par
General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and\par
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License.  We use\par
this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those\par
libraries into non-free programs.\par
\par
  When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using\par
a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a\par
combined work, a derivative of the original library.  The ordinary\par
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the\par
entire combination fits its criteria of freedom.  The Lesser General\par
Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with\par
the library.\par
\par
  We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it\par
does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General\par
Public License.  It also provides other free software developers Less\par
of an advantage over competing non-free programs.  These disadvantages\par
are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many\par
libraries.  However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain\par
special circumstances.\par
\par
  For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to\par
encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes\par
a de-facto standard.  To achieve this, non-free programs must be\par
allowed to use the library.  A more frequent case is that a free\par
library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries.  In this\par
case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free\par
software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.\par
\par
  In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free\par
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of\par
free software.  For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in\par
non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU\par
operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating\par
system.\par
\par
  Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the\par
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is\par
linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run\par
that program using a modified version of the Library.\par
\par
  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and\par
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a\par
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The\par
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must\par
be combined with the library in order to run.\par
\page\par
\tab\tab   GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE\par
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION\par
\par
  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other\par
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or\par
other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of\par
this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License").\par
Each licensee is addressed as "you".\par
\par
  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data\par
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs\par
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.\par
\par
  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work\par
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the\par
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under\par
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a\par
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated\par
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is\par
included without limitation in the term "modification".)\par
\par
  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for\par
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means\par
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated\par
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation\par
and installation of the library.\par
\par
  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not\par
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of\par
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from\par
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based\par
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for\par
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does\par
and what the program that uses the Library does.\par
  \par
  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's\par
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that\par
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an\par
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact\par
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any\par
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the\par
Library.\par
\par
  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,\par
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a\par
fee.\par
\page\par
  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion\par
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and\par
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1\par
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:\par
\par
    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.\par
\par
    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices\par
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.\par
\par
    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no\par
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.\par
\par
    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a\par
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses\par
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility\par
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,\par
    in the event an application does not supply such function or\par
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of\par
    its purpose remains meaningful.\par
\par
    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has\par
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the\par
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any\par
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must\par
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square\par
    root function must still compute square roots.)\par
\par
These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If\par
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,\par
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in\par
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those\par
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you\par
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based\par
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of\par
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the\par
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote\par
it.\par
\par
Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest\par
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to\par
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or\par
collective works based on the Library.\par
\par
In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library\par
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of\par
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under\par
the scope of this License.\par
\par
  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public\par
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do\par
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so\par
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,\par
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the\par
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify\par
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in\par
these notices.\par
\page\par
  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for\par
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all\par
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.\par
\par
  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of\par
the Library into a program that is not a library.\par
\par
  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or\par
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form\par
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany\par
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which\par
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a\par
medium customarily used for software interchange.\par
\par
  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy\par
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the\par
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to\par
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not\par
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.\par
\par
  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the\par
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or\par
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a\par
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and\par
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.\par
\par
  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library\par
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it\par
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the\par
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.\par
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.\par
\par
  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file\par
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a\par
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.\par
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be\par
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The\par
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.\par
\par
  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data\par
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline\par
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object\par
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative\par
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the\par
Library will still fall under Section 6.)\par
\par
  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may\par
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.\par
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,\par
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.\par
\page\par
  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or\par
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a\par
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work\par
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit\par
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse\par
engineering for debugging such modifications.\par
\par
  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the\par
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by\par
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work\par
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the\par
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference\par
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one\par
of these things:\par
\par
    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding\par
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever\par
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under\par
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked\par
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that\par
    uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the\par
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified\par
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood\par
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the\par
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application\par
    to use the modified definitions.)\par
\par
    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the\par
    Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a\par
    copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,\par
    rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)\par
    will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if\par
    the user installs one, as long as the modified version is\par
    interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.\par
\par
    c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at\par
    least three years, to give the same user the materials\par
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more\par
    than the cost of performing this distribution.\par
\par
    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy\par
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above\par
    specified materials from the same place.\par
\par
    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these\par
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.\par
\par
  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the\par
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for\par
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,\par
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is\par
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major\par
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on\par
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies\par
the executable.\par
\par
  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license\par
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally\par
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot\par
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you\par
distribute.\par
\page\par
  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the\par
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library\par
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined\par
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on\par
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise\par
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:\par
\par
    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work\par
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library\par
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the\par
    Sections above.\par
\par
    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact\par
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining\par
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.\par
\par
  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute\par
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any\par
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or\par
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your\par
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,\par
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses\par
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.\par
\par
  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not\par
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or\par
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are\par
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by\par
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the\par
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and\par
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying\par
the Library or works based on it.\par
\par
  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the\par
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the\par
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library\par
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further\par
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.\par
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with\par
this License.\par
\page\par
  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent\par
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),\par
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or\par
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not\par
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot\par
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this\par
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you\par
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent\par
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by\par
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then\par
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to\par
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.\par
\par
If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any\par
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,\par
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.\par
\par
It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any\par
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any\par
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the\par
integrity of the free software distribution system which is\par
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made\par
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed\par
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that\par
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing\par
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot\par
impose that choice.\par
\par
This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to\par
be a consequence of the rest of this License.\par
\par
  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in\par
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the\par
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add\par
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,\par
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus\par
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if\par
written in the body of this License.\par
\par
  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new\par
versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time.\par
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,\par
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.\par
\par
Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library\par
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and\par
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and\par
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by\par
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a\par
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by\par
the Free Software Foundation.\par
\page\par
  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free\par
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,\par
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is\par
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free\par
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our\par
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status\par
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing\par
and reuse of software generally.\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab     NO WARRANTY\par
\par
  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO\par
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.\par
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR\par
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY\par
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE\par
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME\par
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.\par
\par
  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN\par
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY\par
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU\par
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR\par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE\par
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING\par
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A\par
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF\par
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH\par
DAMAGES.\par
\par
\tab\tab      END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
\page\par
           How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries\par
\par
  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest\par
possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that\par
everyone can redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting\par
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the\par
ordinary General Public License).\par
\par
  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is\par
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively\par
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the\par
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.\par
\par
    <one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>\par
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>\par
\par
    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or\par
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public\par
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either\par
    version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\par
\par
    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,\par
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of\par
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU\par
    Lesser General Public License for more details.\par
\par
    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public\par
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software\par
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA\par
\par
Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.\par
\par
You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your\par
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if\par
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:\par
\par
  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the\par
  library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.\par
\par
  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990\par
  Ty Coon, President of Vice\par
\par
That's all there is to it!\par
\par
}
 